final project instructions - ids 401 fall 2018
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can only learn programming through coding by yourself. That is why I emphasize a lot on
the final project. The deliverables of the corporate project include a project report, java code plus
a class presentation.  The presentation constitutes 20% of the grade and project report and java
code deliverable 80%.  The presentation is graded on the basis of content, structure, design, and
delivery.  By content we mean that the students have been able to include all the necessary pieces
of information needed to achieve the objective.  By structure we mean that the students have
included in the presentation introductory, main body, and conclusion slides which follow each
other in logical succession.  By design we mean that the students have been able to use layouts,
graphics, charts, videos, and other visual aids effectively and which enhance the understanding of
the topic presented.  Finally, for delivery, students are graded for posture, voice intonation, body
language, and other speech effects to capture their audience’s attention.  The second deliverable
of the project, the project report and java code, is graded for completeness (whether this
application achieve the goal you claim).

In addition, to help you make progress on course project, we will also have a project
preview. While I will not grade project preview, you are expected to present the general idea of
your project: what is the objective of this project, why it is important, how do you plan to
approach this objective. Details of project preview will be available when the date approaches.
Each team is expected to have around three members. You should start forming your
team and work on the project as soon as possible to make sure you have enough time for the final
project. Notice that if any one of the team members requests a peer evaluation within the
team, I will conduct the evaluation and adjust the project grade accordingly.